NARRATOR: After the cotillions hijacked Bakugan Interspace
and forced us out, things took a turn for the worse
in the battle for Neathia.
We decided to join Fabia as she returned home so we
could help with the fight.
Once we got there, we were made members of the Castle Knights.
Now Earth and Neathia were United
in the struggle to keep Barodius from stealing the Sacred Orb.
Lucky for us, we have the most powerful Bakugan,
Dragonoid Colossus on our side.
Now, Drago.
Bakugan Brawl!
NARRATOR: What are you going to do?
The odds are stacked against you.
Backs against the wall, got to give it your all.
This is the final stand.
The power's in your hand.
Two worlds collide on the inside.
You got to fight for what's right
before it's gone, gone, gone.
This is Bakugan.
[suspenseful music]
How utterly depressing it is that
after decades of loyal service to the royal family,
all I have to show for my troubles is you.
That hurts.
Nice try.
I think it's time we extended our olive branch.
[music playing]
NARRATOR: The Bakugan battle Brawlers in Divide and Conquer.
We heard there's a transmission from Gundalia.
Yes.
It;s coming through a secure channel.
It's a send only transmission.
We can't respond to it.
Attention people of Neathia.
This is Nurzak of the Gundalian 12 orders.
I would like to meet with a delegation
of your choosing to discuss a possible peace treaty.
Sunrise tomorrow, at the Western edge of Sector K.
Nurzak.
Is he for real?
The 12 orders are the ruling body of Gundalia.
He could be acting as a messenger for Emperor Barodius.
But I thought the Emperor wanted to steal the Sacred Orb.
Is it possible that Barodius has changed his mind?
[gasp]
Perhaps, but it's also possible
that this is the first crack in the Gundalian's unified front.
So our plan to divide and conquer is working?
Dude, that is awesome sauce!
Wait, hold on a second.
There's also the possibility that this could be a trap.
It's true.
We can't trust anything those creeps say.
Trap or no trap, we can totally thrash those dudes.
What do we got to lose?
How about everything?
We can't afford to be careless about this, guys.
Come on.
It's true.
Now what?
It is simple.
We proceed with Nurzak's meeting.
[gasp]
But how can you be sure?
I am anything but certain.
However, it is worth the risk.
[suspenseful music]
Everything is finally in place.
Using my special hypnosis, I have seized control
of the subconscious minds of more than half
of the emperor's soldiers.
When the time comes and we're ready to make our strike,
all I need to do is give the signal,
and we'll have an army of fierce warriors under our control.
[laughter]
Taking over the throne of Gundalia is merely
a finger snap away, Nurzak.
So it would seem, Kazarina.
It must feel good for you after all
this time to finally be rid of the leader
you have despised so much.
You should be happy.
[bells ringing]
We will strike tomorrow.
When the bells at dawn ring out, we'll rise up and crush
Barodius once and for all.
Yes, and a new day will begin for Gundalia.
I'm sure it will be the most beautiful of sunrises.
There is one more thing.
You will be leading the attack forces by yourself.
What do you mean?
With the command of the troops in your capable hands,
I can use the revolt as a smokescreen
while I flew to Neathia.
Why would you go there?
It is crucial that I give this peace
offering to the Sacred Orb.
What is it?
This contains the switch code.
Anyone hoping to harness the power of the orb
must be in possession of this.
The former emperor entrusted it to me for safekeeping.
If you've had this for all of this time,
why have you kept it hidden?
You could have unleashed the power of the orb
and defeated Barodius ages ago, you stubborn old fool.
Like the previous emperor, I fear the power of the orb.
I do not covet it.
Kazarina and Nurzak, you say.
Yes.
I've been suspicious of them for a while,
but I didn't want to say anything
until I had absolute proof.
Zenet provided that before I disposed of her.
Just say the word, sire, and I will
take care of these traitorous fools in an even worse fashion.
Stay out of it.
But sire.
This information does not leave this room.
Do you understand, Gil?
Please, Sire!
I said, do you understand?
Yes, I do.
I am glad to hear that.
[grunt]
[suspenseful music]
It is almost time, Nurzak.
Yes, Sabator.
It is indeed.
You're up early.
What?
Can't you sleep?
Ren.
I suppose I could ask the same of you.
I'm on patrol duty.
Of course.
I've always admired the loyalty you have shown to the throne.
It is people like you that give me hope.
Hope that the future of Gundalia will
be better than we ever dreamed.
[door creeks open]
[footsteps]
Your highness, I never thought I would see the day where I was
the one being forced to use the ancient catacomb tunnels
as some sort of escape route.
You had the nerve to come alone?
Did you honestly think you could hide this from me Nurzak?
You are like a fly to garbage.
Are you sure this is the place, Hawktor?
Absolutely.
This is the Western edge of Sector K. That's
where Nurzak said to meet him.
Dude, it's going to be a serious Bummer
if they don't show.
I never get up this early, like never.
Yeah, well it's going to be an even bigger bummer
if this is some kind of ambush.
Is that what this is?
Are you guys hiding out there like a bunch of chickens?
Take it easy, Jake.
They're not going to shout out if they are hiding.
Yeah, really.
The Gandalians might be boneheads,
but they're definitely not that dumb.
You seem like you're on edge, princess.
I'm OK.
We'll know soon enough.
We'll have our answers when the sun rises.
I hope so.
[victorious music]
No matter how mighty the Empire,
or how powerful the leader, the sanctity of the Sacred Orb
must not be violated.
And to any who ignore this, suffering will follow.
Do you remember those words that your father spoke?
Of course I remember.
How could I forget them when my father recited that speech
morning, noon, and night?
He was a superstitious fool, but to his credit.
He knew how to recruit a loyal following.
His followers believed in him.
Of course they did, because he poisoned their minds
by preaching to them the same ridiculous superstitions
that he believed in.
It is easy to rule when fear is your motivator.
Long live the Emperor.
Those memories are like a rotting stench to me.
And now, it's time to clear the air.
My father is no longer emperor.
That title belongs to me.
Emperor Barodius, I'm going to tell you one more time.
You would be wise to heed my warning.
And if I decline, what are you going to do, Nurzak?
Are you going to sneak off to Neathia
and use that thing in your pocket--
What?
-- to turn the orb against me?
The switch code.
I know all about it.
It's been handed down through my family for generations,
after all.
I told you that you couldn't hide anything from me.
[grunts]
[bells ringing]
It is time.
This is for the future of Gundalia, Sabator.
This is the fight of our lives, Lumagrowl.
[suspenseful music]
So it is a new day and Gundalia.
You have left me no choice, Emperor.
Kazarina, unleash the troops now.
[snaps]
What is this?
Did you really think I'd betray the Emperor
to follow an old man?
Kazarina, you're lucky I still have a use for you.
[gasp]
You made no secret that you disagreed with Emperor
Barodius, so he had me do a little investigation
to see just how deep your feelings ran.
You were even easier to play than I thought you would be.
You conniving little witch.
Fossils like you need to be buried.
Enough of this.
I think it's time I disciplined the fool for his betrayal.
Hah.
Do you think you're man enough to take me on?
I've been battling since you were in diapers.
This is for the future I've Gundalia.
Gate card, set!
Bakugan, brawl!
Bakugan, stand.
Rise Subterra Sabator.
[growls]
Bakugan Brawl!
Hah!
Bakugan stand!
Rise, Darkus Dharak!
If you think you can beat me, you're an even
bigger fool than your master.
Good luck taking me down you over-grown lapdog.
Ability, activate.
Brutecam wilder.
[smash]
[roar]
Ever heard of breaths mints?
Ability, activate.
Range sonic.
[screaming]
Hold strong!
Is that the best you can do?
I'm just warming up.
OK, Dharak.
Try this.
Battle gear boost!
Ability activate.
Darkness weaver!
[grunt]
Sabator!
You're gonna pay for that one.
You don't see me running away, do you?
Have you had enough yet?
You wish.
I'm about to show you what an old man can do.
Let's go.
Gate Card, open.
Silent Stalker!
Silent stalker is a gate card that was passed
onto me from your father.
It can easily shut down Dharak's power.
My patience is wearing thin.
The gate card also activates Sabator's level three battle
gear ability, which elevates him far
higher in power than Dharak.
Get ready, Punk, because you're about to feel pain
like you never knew existed.
Battle gear ability, activate.
Sabator, hot fury.
Choke on this!
Woah!
What's this?
What's happening?
Emperor Barodius!
[growl]
Nurzak, you won't get away with this.
Silence.
I don't need you to fight my battles.
Be honest, Nurzak, you crave power
just as much as anyone else.
For all of the years that you served my father and I,
you were really just waiting for a chance to make your move.
Correct Nurzak?
Hah.
Do not pretend to know what motivates me, boy.
I have given my entire life to cleaning up the messes
that your family has made.
Isn't that what servants do?
Clean up after their masters?
Bakugan, Brawl!
Bakugan stand!
Rush them, Dharak!
Bakugan Brawl!
Bakugan stand!
Victory is ours, Sabator!
[growl]
Ability activate.
Evil blow!
Ability activate!
They deflected the blast!
Arrogance.
You may not fear the Sacred Orb, but I
will still teach you a lesson.
Don't make me laugh.
You think you can overthrow me and get away with it?
It is I who will teach you a lesson.
Ability activate.
Thunder probe.
There is a reason that I ascended
the throne faster than anyone in my family's history.
[thunder]
Dharak and I are unlike anything
Gundalia has ever seen before.
What are you saying?
There is no limit to our power!
Time to go.
[scream]
[grunt]
[gasp]
This is out of control!
[thunder]
You are pure evil, and I will cast you out.
Ability activate.
Darkest matter.
I will take you down, even if it means sacrificing
Sabator and myself to do it.
I will devour every last ounce of darkness power.
Sabator really is absorbing Dharak's power,
and it's creating a gravitational force.
But is it too much?
[cracking]
Sabator!
It's OK, Nurzak.
I can do this.
Just a little longer.
You're finished, Sabator.
I guess you are not as wise as you think.
Dharak is more than just the darkest Bakugan.
Using that ability on him ultimately
means curtains for you, Nurzak.
What?
[suspenseful music]
Battle gear boost!
[grunt]
Battle gear ability activate!
AirKor Zayin!
[roar]
Curse you!
What is this place?
I do not understand.
We were winging, but the secret orb.
Did Barodius channel it's power?
Or are we being punished?
[roar]
Farewell old fool.
If you see my father, tell him you were not
man enough to beat me either.
Sire, your father's portrait has been totally destroyed.
[laughter]
Did you hear what I said?
Looks like they bailed.
I think you're right, Dan.
I can't believe they shined us off
like we're a bunch of punks.
Maybe something happened to him.
Like what?
Who can say?
All we know is that for now, our war with Gundalia continues.
[music playing]
I admire the old prune's spirit, thinking
he could stage a rebellion.
Clearly he underestimated your loyalty,
especially you, dear Kazarina.
There has been a lot of sneaky behavior around here lately,
wouldn't you say Gil?
I suppose.
I extend my thanks to you Kazarina.
No thanks are necessary.
Everything I do is for the glory of you and Gundalia.
That pleases me.
Cozying up to the Emperor, are we?
Well, I still don't trust you, Kazarina,
and I'm going to take you down, one way or another.
NARRATOR: The Gundalians still have
control of the battler's they kidnapped
from Bakugan Interspace.
Now the thrashed Ren's team, Kazarina
is using them against us.
They've got this one dude Koji fighting for them,
and his Bakugan pretty fierce.
If we're not careful, the pair of them
could shoot us all for a loop.
Lucky for us, we're all pros at Brawling,
so we won't go down without a fight.
You've got to tune in to see something
else you won't believe.
Ready, Drago?
Bakugan Brawl!
Wicked horsepower, Drago!
That's one sweet ride you got there.
[music playing]